# llama2.c-to-ncnn

A converter for llama2.c legacy models to ncnn models. Currently, this is only tested on the 7B and 13B model.

## Compiling

Set the NCNN_DIR directory to your directory for your ncnn source tree or it will search for ncnn in the parent directory, with a build. The source tree must contain code for the LinearInt8 layer, at <https://github.com/Tencent/ncnn/pull/5007>.

```
git clone --depth=1 https://github.com/lrw04/llama2.c-to-ncnn
cd llama2.c-to-ncnn
mkdir build
cd build
cmake ..
make -j$(nproc)
```

You will get two binaries in the current folder, `convert` and `inference`. `convert` is the converter from llama2.c legacy format to ncnn format, and `inference` is an example of how to use the resulting ncnn models.

## Converting Meta's weights

Use `convert.py`:

```
python convert.py --outfile <output file> <model directory>
```

## Converting weights into ncnn's format

```
./convert <output file> <ncnn model name>

# example
./convert stories15M.bin stories15M.ncnn
```

You will get `stories15M.ncnn.bin`, `stories15M.ncnn.param` and `stories15M.ncnn.desc`. For any model with the three files, the common name `7b.ncnn` is used to denote the model.

## Get tokenizer model

Please retrieve it from <https://github.com/karpathy/llama2.c>. It is under the name of `tokenizer.bin`. Preferredly, obtain it from an older commit and you will have proper newlines instead of <0x0A>.

## Complete text using the resulting model

```
./inference <MODEL> <PROMPT> <N-TOKENS>
# exapmle
./inference stories15M.ncnn "Tell Something" 64
```

## Example outputs

> Iwasawa theory is an isomorphism of the following four categories: (i) Category of $k$-rational points of $\mathcal{G}$ and (ii) Category of $k$-rational points of $\mathcal{G}/\mathcal{K}_H$, where $\mathcal{K}_H$ denotes the relative kernel of the Hilbert modular abelian scheme $\mathcal{H}$, (iii)

<del>Typical nonsense generated by a small LLM</del>

> Whoo. Finally, finally, finally, FINALLY the first episode of the second season of “Sweet Enemy” is out.<0x0A>This episode is two hours long and covers 4 chapters of the manga.<0x0A>I must say, I’ve never seen a dramatic adaptation of a manga that covers so much manga volume in just one episode. But I’m definitely not complaining.<0x0A>Please enjoy the episode. I can’t wait for the next one!<0x0A>P.S. Next time, we’ll be adding Subtitles, Captions and Chinese to English.<0x0A>P.S.S. We’re also considering adding a new audio stream for the “original” audio, so that you can switch between Japanese and English audio.

All of the above are generated with the 7B model. 

## TODO

- [X] KV cache
- [ ] Chat completion support
- [X] int8 quantization
- [X] Reduce memory usage during conversion
